Add SAP HANA gem and connection to docs (#853)
SimpleDataLabsInc/prophecy-docs: docs/analysts/development/gems/source-target/external-table/hana/identity-columns.md

---
title: Generated columns
id: generated-columns
slug: /analysts/hana-generated-columns
description: Define generated columns in HANA target gems
tags: []
---

Generated columns automatically generate values for inserted rows. Configure the generation behavior based on your use case.

## Generated column types

### GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY

When a column has the `GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY` type, it:

- Accepts sequence parameters such as `START WITH` and `INCREMENT BY` to control how values are generated.
- Generates values automatically based solely on the sequence parameters.
- Creates an IDENTITY column managed entirely by SAP HANA.

> - Ignores if a value is provided during an insert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ignores values provided during an insert.
```

#### Example {#example-always-as}

Assume you need a column that auto-increments primary keys for users or products. You never want users or inserts to override the value.

- Column: `user_id`
- Type: `GENERATED ALWAYS AS IDENTITY`
- Always As: `START WITH 1 INCREMENT BY 1`

Here, `user_id` will automatically start at 1 and increment by 1 for every new row. Attempts to insert values will be ignored.

### GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY

When a column has the `GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY` type, it:

- Accepts sequence parameters such as `START WITH` and `INCREMENT BY` to control how values are generated.
- Generates values automatically _when no value is provided in an insert_.
- Creates an IDENTITY column that can accept manual values if they are included in the insert.

> - Adjusts the internal sequence automatically if a manually provided value is higher (or lower, with negative increment) than the current sequence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adjusts the internal sequence automatically if a manually provided value is higher (or lower, in the case of a negative increment) than the current sequence.
```
